- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we're going to take a look at two more GitOps practices
using Azure Arc.
The practices we'll look at our infrastructure as code
and using an operator for continuous deployment.
Within the Azure Arc their support for an operator
called flux that allows us to deploy workloads
on the cluster with a GitOps approach.
You can see that Microsoft is excited about GitOps.
Let's go ahead and click on this button
to start our flux setup.
The first thing that we'll need to do is click on the add
configuration button.
That's going to open a form that allows us to provide Arc
with the information it needs to deploy an operator
into our cluster and to sync that operator
with the desired system state found in Git.
So, we need to give the configuration a name,
I'm just going to use GitOps-Foundations.
And then for the instance name,
I'm going to use Arc-example.
We then need to specify a namespace
and that's going to be Arc-exercise.
And from here, go ahead and select the cluster option
for the operator scope.
Now at this point, I'm going to jump down on the form
and we can provide the repository URL.
This is going to be the URL of a git repo
that holds our systems desired state.
Now for that, we can navigate over to GitHub
where we have forked the environment repository
that holds our infrastructure code.
You'll recall in that repository we have a folder
for each tool.
And there you see the folder for Arc.
It holds Kubernetes manifests that we would like to deploy
on our cluster.
So, just keep that directory in mind.
But we can now go to the code button, click on that.
And then copy the repository URL
for our environment repository.
Once you have that, just navigate back to Azure
and paste the URL into the text box.
Then we need to specify that it is a public repository
and there's just one last thing we need to do.
We need to provide some parameters that the operator
will use to find those Kubernetes manifests
within that repository.
So the first one is the Git-branch parameter
and we're going to point to our main branch.
And then the second is the Git-path parameter.
And this is going to be that Arc directory we mentioned
that holds our Kubernetes manifests.
All right so, everything's in place here,
but before we add the configuration,
I want to do one more thing.
Let's navigate over to a terminal
and here I'm going to use kubectl to watch the pod services
and deployments within the Arc- exercise namespace.
If we look at this command,
you'll see that currently no resources
are deployed within our cluster.
So, let's navigate now back to Azure and we can add
the configuration into Azure Arc
and you'll see that the operator begins to setup.
Currently it's pending.
Now let's hop back to the terminal and here
we can watch the state of the cluster.
So it looks like flux has started to place the Kubernetes
resources on the cluster.
And there we can see that the pods and services are up.
All right, let's do one thing from here.
We're going to access the application.
So for that, we're going to need the IP of one of the nodes.
So we can use kubectl to get the nodes.
And then we'll use the wide format.
There's the internal IP of one of the nodes.
Go ahead and grab that.
I'll just copy that.
Then I'm going to head to a browser
and I have a new tab where we can go ahead and paste in
that IP.
And then we're going to use the node port of 30,000,
like we did previously.
Okay, if we hit that, there we can see the application
is up and running on the cluster.
It was deployed there by our operator flux.
All right.
So, we successfully established an operator in the cluster
that deploys our containerized workloads based upon
the infrastructure code in our Git repository.
So, that's continuous deployment and infrastructure as code.
With these practices established we'll look at how to run
a change through the entire workflow in our next lesson.